# Astro-s
Astro's cheating data visualized for final project in Com 461 Data Reporting
I attempted to visualize the data that had been compiled on the signstealingscandal.com in the hope of making new conclusions from the data separate from what he had charted. 
I initially hoped to show how much more productive the Astros were when using the trash can vs a particular pitches compared to every other team in the league who was not cheating. However as the weeks of compiling this project I found I was little in over my head with that in mind.
I ultimately decided to try and find a story or correlation focusing on a few key data analyzations. # of times a trash can was banged at each specific date logged, runs scored compared to the percentage of total pitches with a bang on that specific day, and the effect of cheating (banging of the trash can) on each players batting avg, from before the cheating in the 2016 season to the 2017 season when the cheating took place. 
Background: The Astro’s confirmed to have used a series of video cameras to relay opposing teams signs, and a team intern would then relay those signs to the hitter by banging on a trash can signifying what type of pitch was about to be thrown. There has been multiple speculation on the Astro’s using other methods but at this time this is the only confirmed method. Also the data compiled only represents Astros home games where there was full video data to analyze each pitch and listen for bangs of the trash can. 
I used mainly the CSV file from signstealingscandal.com, but I also used the CSV file from www.baseball-reference.com on the Astro’s 2017 season to compile data on each player's Batting average as well as runs scored from each game listed with a trash can bang. 
I used multiple pivot tables to help me organize the data needed on Sheet1 and then visualized the data and final organized data for the visualization on Sheet2 and Sheet3.
The first graph representing Bangs on each date was compiled using unique data from each date and number of bangs. The 2nd graph also on Sheet2 is a comparison between runs scored in a particular home game and the % of pitches that day where a trash can was banged.
I think it’s fascinating as the season went on the number of times the trash bang was used it seemed to increase, and then as it became apparent the Astros had clinched their division they bangs seemed to go down. Also the game where the trash can was banged the most, 54 vs Toronto on 2017-08-04 the Astros had one of their highest run totals of the year with an extremely high “16”. On average MLB teams in 2017 scored 4.68 runs per game. I found this interesting as the jump in # of bangs came after a relatively rough patch for the team where they lost 6 of their last 10 games. Resulting in the worst 10 game stretch they had so far that season. This poor stretch was followed by the most # of bangs performed all season. However this can’t be stated as a direct correlation because the banging of the trashcan has an unknown factor in how effective it is. Also on 2017-6-30 the Astros had their highest % of bang per pitch however only scored 4 runs, again proving a direct correlation can’t be stated. Again I want to reiterate no conclusions can be made without a doubt on this data only observations and opinions. 
The final visualization on Sheet3 compares the change or differential in Batting Avg from 2016 with no suspected cheating to Batting Avg in 2017 when the confirmed cheating took place. The cross referencing that with how many bangs each player received as well.
The data for batting average was compiled via www.baseball-reference.com and my work for charting/logging each seasons avg for a specific player can be found on Sheet1. 
Once again their is no direct correlation however it seems significant that nearly every single player saw a significant rise in their batting avg. More importantly every single starter with the exception of aging veterans Aoki, Brian Mccann, and Carlos Beltran saw their BA rise in 2017. Another takeaway I pulled from the data was that Tony Kemp had zero logged trash can bangs throughout the season and his BA stayed consistent with his previous years. This is a big deal because Kemp has been the only player to deny involvement in the cheating scandal, the data seems to back up his claims as he never had a single trash can banged during one of his at bats.
Again this could be due to number of different factors and no conclusions can be made about the data. Players Batting avg and other stats certainly fluctuate from yr to yr, all factors can not be logged as data and this is only observations from the data with cheating compared to statistical data from their 2017 season
There is a lot here and Sheet1 is quite loaded with information, graphs, and data. Please feel to reach out if you have any questions, or concerns! Thanks again!
